The tide goes in and out every day, twice.
They used to say that you couldn't die in Fishguard, you couldn't die in the town.
The tide was going out because then you would go off with the tide.
Bit of a crazy idea, but it was that the tide ruled your life.
Because the boats had to have the tide to go out before the engines were there.
The boats had to use the tide to get out into the stream of the main current where they could get the wind and take them out.
So the tide was very, very important.
And it still is. People still say, you know, well, tide's in this afternoon, which means that the harbour will look pretty.
There won't be so much mud. It'll be nice to look at.
So, yes, it's...
The tide is important for Fishguard.
The way of life around the port is always about tide movement.
The ships don't move unless the tide moves.